    My senior design project is about taking all of the skills that I've picked up from my classes and my co-op experiences and putting them into a project that I'm truly passionate about. Even though I've never had the opportunity to create or to work on a game engine in my classes and co-ops, I want to prove that what I've learned from my classes and my co-op experiences can be transferred into making my passion projects real.

    A few classes that I think gave me some helpful skills for writing a game engine were Data Structures and Algorithms, Software Engineering. In Data Structures and Algorithms, I learned a lot about algorithmic complexity and a little bit about how to write faster algorithms. Because video games typically need to render between 30 to 60 times a second or even higher, it's absolutely necessary for me to use faster algorithms and write optimized code. In Software Engineering, I learned a lot about the potential pitfalls that a lot of projects face, especially the larger that they scale, and I'm going to try to use that knowledge to hopefully have a smoother design and implementation process.

    Even though I've never had the opportunity to do game development for any of my co-op experiences, I still feel that some of my co-ops gave me the opportunity to learn some skills that I think will help me a lot for my senior design project. At my first co-op with The Modal Shop, my position as a software developer gave me the chance to do application development with C. Being able to both learn and use C gave me a lot of experience with a language that could be used for engine development as well as important concepts like manually managing memory. Memory management is especially important for video games since they can easily become memory-intensive.

    I can't wait to start on this project, because making video games has always been one of my passion projects. It's the reason why I decided to study computer science (although I like computer science for other reasons now) starting in high school. In fact, my first experiences with programming came from learning how to write scripts for sandbox games like modded Minecraft. When I get started on making my game engine, I want to start approaching the issue by finding a library that'll help me with the low-level aspects of multimedia applications and looking at simpler videogames for inspiration. Starting with coding my own multimedia library is already in the scope of a senior design project itself, so I really think that coding from "scratch" would just be too big of a scope. Since I'm not sure about how systems in a video game integrate with each other, I'm curious to see how other people have approached it before.

    When I finish my game engine, I hope to have an engine that I can easily reuse for different genres of videogames. I've already set a limitation for myself though, that I would focus on either 2D or 3D graphics specifically, and not both. I don't expect to have anything that competes with modern engines, but I hope that with an independently developed engine, I could use it for myself and create videogames that can be distributed cross-platform on major distribution platforms like Steam. I know I'll be done with my engine when I can make functioning games with it, and I'll know if I did a good job or not if I don't regret using the engine to make my own games with it.
