# Constraints for Team Chrus
In terms of constraints, there are only a few that affect my project, which is the design and development of a game engine and video game using said engine. However, I still need to consider the economic, professional, and social constraints that my project will have.

Firstly, the economic constraints on my project will probably be the largest of the constraints. Since the senior design class has a very short timespan to design and develop a project that is as large as mine, I need to rely on libraries written by other people to handle the implementation of functions that would be outside the scope of my project. I plan on only using free and open source libraries, so there are a small selection of libraries that I can use to abstract the usage of computer graphics.

Professional constraints are another concern I have with my project. Although I technically have professional experience with game development, I have no real experience with game engine development or even systems programming. This project would be a massive boost to my professional development. In terms of needed expertise, any game I work on will likely require me to ask for help from others for art assets.

Lastly, I need to consider some social impacts with my project. I'm hoping that whatever I work on is usable enough to create a full-fledged videogame that I can release for multiple platforms and for money. As a result, I hope that if people play my videogame, they'll have fun and not be influenced to do bad things. Like cutting people off in traffic, or taking candy from babies.
